## Deploying Detective

The Detective Daemon can be deployed as a stand-alone JAR or as a Docker image.

### Stand-alone JAR Deployment

When deploying Detective as a stand-alone JAR you'll need to roughly do the following:

1. Upload the JAR to some known location on the server you'd like to deploy to.
2. Populate a configuration file on the server. (See below.)
3. Pick a location to upload extensions to if you have any.
4. Create an init script or monit script to start the server. (See below.)

Once you've done the above you should be in pretty good shape to start running Detective.

#### Preparing your server

To prepare your server, you should pick a few directories for deploying the pieces of Detective.
Those locations (with our default suggestions) are:

* The location where the Detective JAR is stored. We'll call this `DETECTIVE_HOME` in this doc.
  (we recommend `/opt/kafka-detective`)
* The location where Detective extensions are stored. We'll call this `LIBS_HOME` in this doc.
  (we recoomend `opt/kafka-detective/lib`)

#### Generating the start command

Once Kafka Detective is on your server, you'll need to correctly craft the command to start it.
A start script should look something like this with your `DETECTIVE_HOME` and `LIBS_HOME` substituted
in:

```
#!/usr/bin/env bash

exec java -cp DETECTIVE_HOME/*:LIBS_HOME/* me.frmr.kafka.detective.Main "\$@"
```

### Docker image deployment

Detective also supports deployment using a Docker image. The currently released docker image is:

```
$dockerimage$
```
