## Extending Kafka Detective

Kafka Detective provides interfaces that allow you to extend its behavior. Those interfaces
are available in the `detective-api` package in Maven Central.

### Getting detective-api

To get started, you'll need to pull in `detective-api` as a provided dependency for your project.
You can write extensions in Scala 2.12 or in Java. Below are code snippets for adding `detective-api`
to various build systems.

> As of the time of this writing, detective-api isn't yet available on Maven Central. You can download the JAR from the [release notes]($releasenotes$).

#### SBT

```
libraryDependencies += "me.frmr.kafka" %% "detective-api" %% "$detectiveversion$" % "provided"
```

#### Gradle

```
dependencies {
  compileOnly 'me.frmr.kafka:detective-api:$detectiveversion$'
}
```

#### Maven

```
<dependency>
  <groupId>me.frmr.kafka</groupId>
  <artifactId>detective-api</artifactId>
  <version>$detectiveversion$</version>
  <scope>provided</scope>
</dependency>
```

### Using detective-api

Once you've got your project defined, you can defined implementations for the interfaces provided
by the `me.frmr.kafka.detective.api` package.

Scaladocs for the API can be found [here](/scaladocs/detective-api).

Specifically, those interfaces are:

* **MonitorDeserializer** — Provides a custom deserializer for incoming messages. A different
  deserializer can be defined for the test and reference side to accommodate for changes in
  serialization format.
* **MonitorMatchFinder** - Provides a custom heuristic for determining if a message should match
  any possible messages from a reference window.
* **MonitorMatchTester** - Provides a custom heuristic for testing the pair produced by the
  configured MonitorMatchFinder.
* **MonitorReporter** - Reports matching results to an external system.
* **MonitorReporterTransformer** - Transforms messages before sending them to the reporting
  system. This could be used, for example, to transform the messages to JSON format.

In your project you will create some custom implementation of one or more of the above interfaces.
Then, when you're ready you'll need to use your build tool's packaging task to create a JAR of
the compiled classes.

Once you've done this, you'll want to deploy this JAR into Detective's classpath. We outline how
to do this with the Docker image below. You will need to adjust this technique if you've deployed
Detective differently.

### Extend via a volume mount

The easiest possibility for deploying your custom extensions to Detective is to simply volume
mount them into the Kafka Detective container. Simply execute the following at your shell:

```
docker run -v /path/to/file.jar:/opt/kafka-detective/lib/file.jar $dockerimage$
```

Detective scans all JARs found in the lib folder for classes, so simply making it available to
the default Docker image in this way is sufficient to get your custom filters and testers available
to Detective.

### Extend via a new Docker Image

One way to deploy your code is by making a variant of the Detective docker image that
adds your JAR file to the `lib` folder, where Detective looks for classes. That Docker image
can be defined with a Dockerfile as simple as:

```
FROM $dockerimage$

ADD /path/to/your/jar/file.jar /opt/kafka-detective/lib/file.jar
```

You'll then build and tag that image and push it somewhere your server can access it. Then,
all you need to do is change the appropriate config setting to use your class instead of the
default. For example, if you had provided a custom match finder, you might change the
`MATCH_FINDER` environment variable before running the image.
