## Default Implementations

Kafka Detective provides a few helpful, default implementations that can be used without
doing any custom coding of your own. Each section tells you the environment variable or config
parameter that lets you use these default implemenations.

### MatchFinder: KeyEqualsFinder

> MATCH_FINDER="me.frmr.kafka.detective.matchfinder.KeyEqualsFinder"

Determines possible matches based on the equality of the key. Attempts to account for duplicate
keys by keeping track of the offset of the last probable match for a provided key. This class is
provided as a part of detective-api so that you can compose on top of it for custom functionality.

### MatchTester: ValueEqualsTester

> MATCH_TESTER="me.frmr.kafka.detective.matchtester.ValueEqualsTester"

Does a simple comparison and determines if the value of the two messages are equal. Checks for
byte arrays and uses an appropriate array equality checker if found. If not, falls back to
the `equals` method.

### Deserializer: ByteArrayDeserializer

> REFERENCE_DESERIALIZER="me.frmr.kafka.detective.ByteArrayDeserializer"

> TEST_DESERIALIZER="me.frmr.kafka.detective.ByteArrayDeserializer"

Deserializes key and value as byte arrays.

### Deserializer: StringDeserializer

> REFERENCE_DESERIALIZER="me.frmr.kafka.detective.StringDeserializer"

> TEST_DESERIALIZER="me.frmr.kafka.detective.StringDeserializer"

Deserializes key and value as strings.

### Deserializer: StringKeyByteArrayValueDeserializer

> REFERENCE_DESERIALIZER="me.frmr.kafka.detective.StringKeyByteArrayValueDeserializer"

> TEST_DESERIALIZER="me.frmr.kafka.detective.StringKeyByteArrayValueDeserializer"

Deserializes key as string and value as byte array.
