## Configuring Detective

Kafka Detective has two methods of configuration for most application settings. You can either
use an application.conf file, which will work best if you're running Detective directly on the
host, or you can configure using environment variables, which will work best for Docker deployment.

Unfortunately, for metrics configuration options you currently _must_ use environment variables.

### General Application Configuration

General application configuration covers the basic configuration of what content Detective is
monitoring and how it is monitoring it.

#### Configuring the Docker deployment

When deploying as a Docker container, we recommend using the environment to configure the
application. The following environment variables are available for you to use to configure
Detective:

* `MAX_WORKER_COUNT` - The maximum number of workers to use. When detective boots up each partition
  on your upstream topics will be assigned to workers. The correct value here is determined by the
  volume on your topics. For high volume topics, this should be equal to the number of partitions
  you're monitoring.
* `COMPARISON_THREADS_PER_WORKER` - The number of different comparison threads to use while testing
  messages.
* `MONITOR_ID` - Some unique identifier for the monitor.
* `REFERENCE_SERVER` - The Kafka broker address (or a comma separated list of broker addresses) that
  the reference data will come from.
* `REFERENCE_TOPIC` - The topic that the reference data will come from.
* `REFERENCE_PARTITION` - A comma separated list of partitions to monitor from the topic.
* `REFERENCE_DESERIALIZER` - The deserializer to use when parsing reference messages.
* `TEST_SERVER` - The Kafka broker address (or a comma separated list of broker addresses) that
  the test data will come from.
* `TEST_TOPIC` - The topic that the test data will come from.
* `TEST_PARTITION` - A comma separated list of partitions to monitor from the test topic.
* `TEST_DESERIALIZER` - The deserializer to use when parsing reference messages.
* `REFERENCE_WINDOW_SIZE` - The number of reference messages to buffer for comparison.
* `MATCH_FINDER` - The class that will serve to find candidate matches.
* `MATCH_TESTER` - The class that will test match candidates for matching.
* `REPORTERS` - The comma separated list of reporter to use.

If you're using one of the Kafka topic reporters, you'll also want to configure these environment
variables:

* `KAFKA_REPORTER_TOPIC` - The topic to report on
* `KAFKA_REPORTER_SERVER` - The broker address (or comma separated list of broker addresses) that
  failures will be reported to.

#### Writing an application.conf

When deploying Detective as a JAR, you'll need to write an `application.conf` file and put it on
your server. Detective uses [Typesafe Config][tsconfig] for its configuration. You can find more
information on the different kinds of things that could appear in a config file in their
documentation.

Below is an example configuration file including information about what each value means:

```
kafka-detective {
  # The maximum number of workers to allocate per
  # monitor
  max-worker-count-per-monitor = 10

  # The number of threads to use for comparing
  # messages in a worker
  comparison-threads-per-worker = 10

  # An array of monitors. You can add multiple
  # monitors to a single instance of Detective
  monitors = [
    {
      # An identifier for this monitor.
      # All monitor identifiers must be
      # unique.
      identifier = "awesome-topic"

      # Information about the reference
      # topic.
      reference-subject = {
        # Hostname and port of the broker
        # to connect to
        server = "localhost:9092"

        # Topic to monitor
        topic = "awesome-ref-topic"

        # Partitions in the topic to monitor
        partitions = "1,2,3"

        # Class that can deserialize the
        # messages
        deserializer = "me.frmr.kafka.detective.deserializer.ByteArrayDeserializer"
      }

      # Same configuration as above for
      # the test topic
      test-subject = {
        server = "localhost:9092"
        topic = "awesome-test-topic"
        partitions = "1,2,3"
        deserializer = "me.frmr.kafka.detective.deserializer.ByteArrayDeserializer"
      }

      # The number of messages from the reference
      # topic to buffer for comparison
      reference-window-size = 10000

      # Class that can will find potential matches
      # within the reference window.
      match-finder = "me.frmr.kafka.detective.matchfinder.KeyEqualsFinder"

      # Class that will determine if a match is
      # successful.
      match-tester = "me.frmr.kafka.detective.matchtester.ValueEqualsTester"

      # Class that will report failures.
      reporters = "me.frmr.kafka.detective.reporter.KafkaTopicReporter"

      # Special configuration for reporters
      # that require them.
      reporter-configs {
        kafka {
          topic = "awesome-topic-fails"

          producer {
            "bootstrap.servers" = "localhost:9092"
            "acks" = "all"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

[tsconfig]: https://github.com/typesafehub/config

### Metrics Reporting Configuration

Detective uses Dropwizard Metrics under the hood to report on a number of interesting metrics about
its operation. Additionally, there's a metrics reporter that you can use to report metrics on how
your performing overall.

By default, these metrics will all be fed to JMX. However, you can configure the metrics subsystem
to report to a [Graphite Carbon](https://github.com/graphite-project/carbon) host by providing the
following environment variables:

https://github.com/graphite-project/carbon

* `GRAPHITE_ENABLED=1`
* `GRAPHITE_HOST=my.carbon.host`
* `GRAPHITE_PORT=1234`
* `GRAPHITE_POLL_SECONDS=` any value you wish for refreshing
